---
layout: post
title:  This MSU student created a petition to stop Richard Spencer from coming to campus
date:   2017-08-17
image:  images/post9.jpg
tags:   [News]
publication: The Tab Michigan State
hyperlink: https://thetab.com/us/michigan-state/2017/08/17/msu-student-created-a-petition-to-stop-richard-spencer-from-coming-to-campus-6996
---
>White supremacists do NOT deserve a platform or institution like MSU
Sexual assaults and various sex crimes have now been mapped at Michigan State.

President Simon and Student Body President Lorenzo Santavicca have already made their initial comments and statements regarding Richard Spencer's corporation, the National Policy Institute, wanting to rent space at the university. The concern focuses on the balance of allowing for free speech, and protecting the diversity that MSU thrives on.

Now it's time for student reactions to come to the surface. MSU student, Daniel Eggerding, took his anger one step further than ranting on social media. The social relations and policy major instead made a Change.Org post aimed against the university and President Simon.

#### The petition, named "Michigan State University: DO NOT Allow White Supremacist Richard Spencer to Speak at MSU" reads in full:
>A group that has been labeled as a white supremacist/white nationalist organization, headed by Richard Spencer, has reached out to Michigan State University, requesting space on campus to speak with students about pro-fascist, pro-Nazi, and anti-equality agendas. This group, known as the National Policy Institute, reached out to Michigan State earlier this week. MSU President Simon released a statement saying the request will be reviewed and they have not yet decided if MSU will allow the speaker on campus. Other universities, like Texas A&M and the University of Florida, have already denied requests by Spencer to speak on his campus. It's clear that MSU should follow suit. President Simon and administration has not made a formal decision yet on what the university plans to do. Michigan State University students, staff, and Michigan residents do not stand for hate in any way, shape, or form. White supremacists do NOT deserve a platform or institution like MSU which is made up of a diverse student body that prides itself on love, acceptance, and inclusion.

>#isMSUnext?

>To get involved immediately, call Jason Cody at the MSU Communications & Brand Strategy to demand the University to decline the National Policy Institute's application for on campus space. The office number is 517-432-0924 and PLEASE leave a message if no one picks up.

The petition has a goal of 100 signatures and already has 96.