---
layout: post
title:  This MSU student tricked everyone into thinking she was going to be the next Bachelorette
date:   2017-02-28
image:  images/post6.jpg
tags:   [Feature]
publication: The Tab Michigan State
hyperlink: https://thetab.com/us/michigan-state/2018/02/28/this-msu-student-tricked-everyone-into-thinking-she-was-going-to-be-the-next-bachelorette-8488
---
Last night, MSU junior Shelby Sacco posted on her Instagram with an announcement that she has been chosen as the next Bachelorette for season 22 of the popular ABC series.

In less than 24 hours, the post already has more than 1,500 likes and close to 100 comments. Sacco edited the caption earlier today, however, to clarify that it was only meant as a joke – and she is definitely not the next Bachelorette.

It threw some people for a loop, to say the least.

"It wasn't even really a joke, I wasn't trying to trick people," Sacco said. "I had that picture from my pageant headshots and me and my friends thought it would be funny if I made a Bachelor caption. It's hilarious to me that people believed it."

And people definitely did. Most commenters on the post went crazy trying to figure out if it was real; others congratulated Sacco on her good fortune, and a few were beside themselves that the post was being taken seriously.

The hilarity and confusion also spread to Twitter:
##### She got even more, uh, congratulations
Shelby Sacco finally getting the fame she deserves https://t.co/aQPTcBpgjp

— Elena Schafer (@Elena_Schafer) February 27, 2018
##### This user took the joke one step further
Shelby Sacco about to post on Instagram about how Steve Irwin's legacy isn't over and she's gonna wrestle some fucking crocs

— jesse (@get_to_heaven9) February 27, 2018

The headshots in Sacco's Instagram post were taken for the Miss Michigan USA pageant several months ago, where she was a semi-finalist in the competition as a representative for Oakland County.

Here's to hoping that the show will one day feature one of our fellow Spartans – for real this time. 🌹